🚀 SPLIT PHP Framework - Release Notes
---

📦 Version: 2.3.0
📅 Release Date: 2025-07-09
🔄 Last Update: 2026-01-13
📄 License: MIT
👤 Authors: 
  - Gabriel Valentoni Guelfi (https://github.com/gabriel-guelfi)

---

💬 Commentaries:

In this release, we added a seed system in order to allow the user to populate their database in a fluent way alongside the migrations.
We also improved the endpoints with some cool features, added a set of user-readable exceptions to diferentiate when you want your users to 
read the message or if it is meant only for the logs.

---

✨ New Features:

    ▸ Added Seeds to use alongside migrations and populate tables automatically.

    ▸ Endpoint handlers now can receive the Request object and/or named parameters, besides the flat array it already receives.

    ▸ You can define multiple HTTP verbs for a given endpoint.

    ▸ Add a set of user-readable exceptions, so this is the way you tell the framework its message is meant for the end-user to see.

    ▸ Events now can stop propagation from within listeners, which also interrupts the very event trigger.

    ▸ Added some very nice helper functions.

    ▸ Removed that annoying "readonly db user" from the configs. Now the framewok take care of it by itself.

    ▸ Removed the need for database from the beginning. Now, if the db does not exist, it creates it when applying migrations.

    ▸ Added support for multitenancy on the migrations and seeds systems. (This one really gave me headaches! xD)

    ▸ Added default user agent on curl helper

    ▸ Support for spawning multiple parallel isolate processes that executes an arbitrary function.

---

🔧 Bug Fixes:

    ▸ A minor fix on Module Loader class.

    ▸ Fixed a silly bug on automatically built MySQL WHERE clause.

    ▸ Request was removing the first parameter of the route. (Blaime on the Copilot)

    ▸ Multiple `Dao::bindParams()` with placeholder arguments wasn't working.

    ▸ `Sql::insert()` wasn't able to understand arrays of objects.

    ▸ Minor error on log event function.

    ▸ IN/NOT IN operators with null values were not working in pre-defined queries. 

    ▸ Minor bugfix with the Database connection exception handler
    
    ▸ Minor bugfix with migrations system.
    
    ▸ Some fixes with database mapping systems.

    ▸ Refactored the seeding system to support multiple operations per table and manual primary ID assignment.
    
    ▸ Fixed multitenant entity mapping by implementing dynamic schema detection using the DATABASE() function.